Title: Attending DSAA 2017
Date: 2017-10-21
Category:
Tags:
Slug: attending-dsaa-2017
Authors: Micah Smith
Status: draft

This past week, I had the pleasure of attending IEEE DSAA 2017 and presenting my recent work
on collaborative feature engineering. It was certainly not lost on me to find that this
conference was held in Tokyo, Japan. And I was not displeased to observe that I could arrive
several days early in order to see the city.

### Collaborative feature engineering

I presented our recent paper, *FeatureHub: towards collaborative data science*, which I have
been working on in Data To AI group since the beginning of 2017. In the FeatureHub paradigm,
a team of data scientists collaboratively generates a single, integrated machine learning
model by parallelizing work on feature engineering and submitting their efforts to an
automated machine learning aggregator.

As motivation, I've been fascinated recently by the outsize successes of open-source software
engineering projects like the Linux Kernel, PostgreSQL, and the Julia language. Each of
these has tens or hundreds of thousands of commits and thousands of contributors from around
the world. The successes of open source have been most apparent, in my opinion, when the
scope of the projects has been the largest.

In contrast, data science, though a much "younger" field, has had less success in this area. By
that, I mean that examples of data science projects in which the output is a single machine
learning model are few and far between, and the scale of these projects is much smaller.

One example of such a open-source, collaborative data science project is Data4Democracy's
boston-crash-modeling, in which contributors are jointly developing a model to predict car
crashes in Boston, MA to try to reduce pedestrian casualties.
