content/pages/home.md, before:

Title: Welcome
status: hidden
URL:
save_as: index.html

#

I am a fifth year PhD student in Computer Science at MIT in the [Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science](https://www.eecs.mit.edu). I am advised by Dr. Kalyan
Veeramachaneni in the [Data To AI group](https://dai.lids.mit.edu) within the [Laboratory
for Information and Decision Systems](https://lids.mit.edu).

My research broadly focuses on machine learning systems. How can we create systems that
enable people to do machine learning and data science more easily and effectively? How can
we make machine learning and data science more collaborative in nature? Can we automate
mundane or error-prone tasks in machine learning and data science? How can we make these
areas more accessible to other domain experts? How can we expose data science and machine
learning to the open-source development paradigm?

I'm interested in machine learning, data science, software engineering, open source, and
human-computer interaction... as well as public transit, crosswords, BBQ, running,
basketball, fantasy sports, house plants, reading, and more.

Everything on this site reflects my personal views only.

# Blog

Read my [blog](/blog).

Commit message:

Update home + research projects, add resume + cv

content/pages/home.md, after:

Title: Welcome
status: hidden
URL:
save_as: index.html

I am a fifth year PhD student in Computer Science at MIT in the [Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science](https://www.eecs.mit.edu). I am advised by Dr. Kalyan Veeramachaneni in the [Data To AI group](https://dai.lids.mit.edu) within the [Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems](https://lids.mit.edu).

My [research]({filename}/pages/research.md) broadly focuses on machine learning, human-computer interaction, and software engineering. How can we create systems that enable people to do machine learning and data science more easily and effectively? How can we make machine learning and data science more collaborative in nature? Can we automate mundane or error-prone tasks in machine learning and data science? How can we make these areas more accessible to other domain experts? How can we expose data science and machine learning to the open-source development paradigm?

I'm also an experienced software developer and ML engineer. I've helped build and deploy ML models at high-growth startups and have consulted on ML for clients in the finance industry and in academia. Check out my [resume]({static}/files/resume.pdf) or my [full CV]({static}/files/cv.pdf).

[Talk to me]({filename}/pages/contact.md) about research, ML, and software development... as well as public transit, crosswords, BBQ, running, basketball, tennis, fantasy sports, house plants, reading, chess, politics, and more!

You can also [read my blog]({filename}/pages/blog.md) for various musings about the above.

Everything on this site reflects my personal views only.
